We got the supplies,
but we were fortunate to get away.
The Empire's making our travels
around the Outer Rim
tougher all the time.
Yes. We need a new hyperspace route
in and out of the Lothal sector.
I may have a perfect shortcut.
The system of Concord Dawn.
It's a Mandalorian colony
and not an Imperial territory yet.
Why not? They've grabbed up
just about every other place.
Concord Dawn is known
for its elite warriors.
They were brought in
to train clones back in the war.
Bet even the Empire thinks twice
about a fight with them.
The question is, who are they loyal to?
The Empire does occupy
their home world of Mandalore,
so Imperial influence could be a factor.
Years before the Clone Wars broke out,
the Mandalorians were already
at war with each other.
This group call themselves
the Protectors.
They like to make up their own rules.
Sounds familiar.
So we go in with strength,
scout the system for defenses
to see what we're up against.
Or why not try diplomacy?
Ask permission
to use their system as a shortcut.
Diplomacy?
Warriors like these
only understand strength.
He's got a point.
But we shouldn't make an enemy
if we don't need to.
lf we get permission
to fly through their space,
the next step could be recruitment.
To grow the rebellion, we need
friends like these Mandalorians.
We could have our route
and a powerful ally as well.
Very well, Captain Syndulla.
The mission is yours.
Okay if I tag along?
I was hoping you'd ask.
Looks like diplomacy
won the day for once.
There was a time
when it always won the day.
So, that's Concord Dawn.
Sure looks like it's been through a war.
This system has endured
more than 100 wars.
My people don't need a reason
to pick a fight.
Phoenix Squadron, we have visitors.
Everybody, stay sharp.
Attention, unregistered ships.
This is Fenn Rau,
Protector of Concord Dawn.
You are trespassing.
Identify yourselves.
We come in peace, Protector.
Peace?
That's not a word I hear often.
State your mission.
We request safe passage
through your system.
Well, that depends. Who is asking?
Those who would stand
with Concord Dawn
against the Empire.
So you're the rebels I've heard about.
How unfortunate for you.
You haven't heard
what we have to say.
I don't need to. Out here,
I act in the name of the Empire.
Hold on, Protector.
I'm hit!
Hera, what do we do? What do we do?
I don't think they're interested
in talking, Hera.
Phoenix Squadron, take evasive action.
Spectre-5, Phoenix-2, get out of here.
There's too much fire.
I can't get an opening.
He's right. lf we attempt to jump,
we'll be cut to pieces.
Go to heading 257.
I'll get your opening.
-What about you?
-Just follow orders, Sabine.
Roger that.
That's it, Protector. Follow me.
What are you up to?
Hera, where's that opening?
Prepare to jump.
Coordinates set.
Thanks, Phoenix Leader.
Get going, Sabine.
Not without you.
Just go! I'll be right behind you.
Close ranks.
Sabine, what happened?
We picked up a distress call.
Where's Hera?
She was right behind me.
Kanan, we didn't have a chance.
These Mandalorians
work for the Empire, too.
Hera.
Hera, can you hear me?
I see her. I see her, Kanan. It's bad.
You've got to hurry. Please, hurry!
How is she?
Her vital signs have stabilized.
She is going to make it.
But she requires rest.
This is my fault.
I shouldn't have left her.
There's nothing you could have done.
I'm just glad
you're both back in one piece.
Commander Sato
wants the details on what happened.
-Yeah, I'll be right there.
-Okay.
I'm so sorry, Hera.
They're going to answer for this.
Fenn Rau,
the Protector of Concord Dawn.
That's who did this.
That's who we're up against.
Rex, does that name
sound familiar to you?
It sure does.
Fenn Rau was a fighter pilot instructor
for the Grand Army of the Republic.
-He also served...
-At the Battle of Mygeeto.
I know. I was there.
That was a long time ago.
So I guess negotiating's
been taken off the table?
Yeah? You want to negotiate?
Let's negotiate,
by destroying their ability to attack us.
I tracked them
from Concord Dawn's third moon.
They must have a base there.
lf they scan our fleet approaching,
their fighters will cut us to pieces.
Then I guess we'll have to hit 'em
before they take off.
You think you can infiltrate their base?
I believe I can.
We can take out their fighters,
all of them.
It's risky, but I approve.
Well, I don't.
This is a solo mission,
and I'm taking it.
I'm already one man down.
I won't risk anyone else.
Kanan, I know the Mandalorians.
You need me on this mission.
-No way.
-We're a team.
You can't go without us.
All right. I'll take Chopper.
But that's all.
And this is not open
for further discussion.
Come on, Chopper.
Come on, Chopper!
I can hear you.
And, yes, I know what I'm doing.
Just program the nav computer.
Chopper, load up the intel
Sabine gathered.
We can pinpoint where their base is.
What do you mean, "Just ask her?"
He means I'm standing
right behind you.
Better jam those scanners.
What are you doing here?
You must be pretty distracted
not to have noticed I stowed away.
So, what are you really up to?
You heard Sato's orders.
I'm gonna destroy those fighters
before they take off.
I know you better than that.
Fine. I'm going to finish Hera's mission.
We need to recruit the Mandalorians
to join the rebellion.
The Protectors almost killed Hera.
What are you thinking?
I'm thinking we can still offer them
a chance to change.
Everyone deserves a chance.
You know, this Jedi philosophy stuff
doesn't work for everyone.
That's why we're at war.
Well? What are we up against?
Including the two starfighters on patrol?
Eight ships total.
But they're spread out,
so it's gonna take me a while
to plant charges.
I think I brought enough explosives.
You always bring enough explosives.
Hopefully you won't have to use 'em.
Now get down. They got company.
Looks like the Empire
bought their loyalty.
See the Mandalorian
accepting the credits?
That's their leader, Fenn Rau.
Here is the payment
for the next rotation.
This arrangement is working
to your benefit.
I encountered a squadron of rebels.
The rebel fleet?
Not an entire fleet. A couple fighters.
But my men and I took care of them.
lf they return, be sure to contact us.
Sounds like your negotiations
are gonna go great.
What's the plan?
I mean, if diplomacy doesn't work.
You give me a chance
to recruit the Mandalorians.
lf that doesn't work out,
then you get to blow up their fighters.
We have a deal?
Fine. But not just the ships.
Rau has to pay for what he did to Hera.
Let's hope it doesn't come to that.
Two rebels burned. The rest fled.
He wants us to stay on guard.
Plant your bombs,
but wait for my signal.
All right.
Hey. I trust you.
Pretty bold to sneak onto my base.
I'm gonna assume you're one of those
rebels I dealt with earlier.
That's a pretty good guess,
but not the entire truth.
I don't recognize you,
so before I gun you down,
why don't you tell me what you want?
We never met, but I do know you.
ln fact, I came to thank you.
ln the Clone Wars, you fought in
the Third Battle of Mygeeto.
And I was there.
You're a survivor.
But that explains
how you got past my men.
My master, Depa Billaba, and I
were pinned down, trapped by droids.
You and your Skull Squadron
flew into the Separatist fire
over and over to cover us.
You saved our lives.
That was a long time ago.
I was younger and more reckless then.
To be honest, I don't see what
that has to do with you being here.
You gave me a chance to live that day.
Now, I'd like to return the favor.
What was that?
How's it going, boys?
Where did you steal that armor from,
bounty hunter?
Bounty hunter? Not lately.
I forged this armor with my family.
Family? That's a bold claim.
What's your house?
I'm Clan Wren, House Vizsla.
-House Vizsla?
-She's Death Watch.
-Traitor!
-My mother was, but I'm not.
I came here to settle a score,
and I invoke the code
to seek justice through single combat.
No one has invoked the code
since the Empire took over.
Well, who's in charge here?
The Empire or Mandalore?
I already fought
one losing war for the Jedi.
I'm not fighting another.
You can't possibly
believe in the Empire.
I believe they have the strength
to defeat you,
and the resources to back it up.
Why would I fight the Empire
when obviously destroying you
is so much easier?
You must know the Empire
isn't interested in sharing their power.
ln the end, everyone is their enemy.
lf we don't stand together,
then we're all alone.
Alone is who we are.
Sir. We have an infiltrator.
Don't worry.
I have the Jedi under control.
I don't know anything about this Jedi,
but a Mandalorian trespasser
has invoked the code.
She claims she's House Vizsla.
I assume she came here with you?
Let me handle this.
I'm afraid it's out of your control now,
Jedi.
Sabine, I thought we had an agreement.
They started it.
Your house is an enemy
to the Protectors.
Call out your opponent
for combat to the death.
I thought you'd never ask.
I call out you, Fenn Rau.
You're gonna pay
for what you did to Hera.
Just like I said.
You rebels fight battles you can't win.
I assume Hera is the pilot
I shot to pieces earlier.
I guess she didn't make it.
She's alive. Barely.
I got to admit
this is an interesting development.
One of you came here to befriend me,
the other came to kill me.
We can't let you attack our fleet.
But we'd rather leave here as friends.
He's already the enemy.
Sabine, you know
this isn't what Hera wanted.
She didn't want to create enemies
and she wouldn't want you to die.
I'm not planning on dying.
I'm afraid the only way
you're getting out of here alive
is if she kills me,
and that is not going to happen.
What is it with you Mandalorians,
never knowing how to solve anything
except through the end of a blaster?
Sabine, you do this,
you're no better than him.
You have to trust me.
Sabine, you make this choice
and, win or lose,
the Empire is going to be
all over this system and the fleet.
Kanan, you need to stop talking now.
There are alternatives to killing.
Come on!
Capture them alive.
I want them to watch their fleet burn.
Are you feeling better now?
You got to blow stuff up.
I thought you'd be happy
I didn't kill anyone.
Actually, I'm thrilled.
Well, here's the bad news,
Rau's fighter
is at the far end of the field,
and I wasn't able to set the charges on it
before they captured me.
-You're saying we should go after him?
-Yes!
For the first time today,
we agree on something.
Fine. But we are still not killing anyone.
You love making this hard for me.
Chopper, I think we're done here.
Kanan, how's the plan going?
Just get up here!
Okay! Hang on!
Still think we can't win?
Our ride's here.
No!
Kanan!
When you set your mind to something,
you're kind of frightening.
-How do you feel?
-Like a prisoner.
-Better get that.
-Are you crazy?
You can't let a prisoner
receive outside communications.
Just answer it.
Sir, are you all right?
We're marshaling
our reserve starfighters for pursuit.
Stand down. There's no need.
But, sir, if the Empire finds out
about your capture...
You're not gonna let that happen.
And the rebels?
Until I give the word,
there is to be no mention of the rebels.
And their ships are to be granted
safe passage through our system.
As you wish.
Welcome to the Rebellion.
Right now, we are only friends
because we have to be.
What does that mean?
Well, the Empire doesn't make
a habit of rescuing people.
The last thing Rau wants
is Imperial ships all over his territory,
and that's exactly what he'd get
if they found out he was our prisoner.
Kanan. Sabine.
Hera wants to see you.
I hear we're taking prisoners now.
I like to think of him
more as a reluctant recruit.
It was better than the alternative.
We're not at war with the Protectors.
There was no need to take their lives
if we didn't have to.
Sabine, you're sounding
more like a Jedi than a Mandalorian.
Well, I guess I've just been raised right.